.\"
.\"     Title: spectrum.cfg
.\"    Author: Mathias Ertl <mati@fsinf.at>
.\"  Language: English
.\"      Date: 2010-03-31
.\"
.TH spectrum.cfg 5  "March 31, 2010" "Version 0.1\-git" "Spectrum Manual"

.SH NAME
spectrumc.cfg - spectrum configuration file
.SH FULL PATH
Depends on local setup, but usually in /etc/spectrum.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This man-page describes the fileformat for spectrum configuration files. With
\fBspectrum\fR, each protocol configuration (e.g. for icq, msn, ...) runs as its
own instance and hence requires its own configuration file.

The fileformat is structured into four sections: \fIservice\fR, \fIlogging\fR,
\fIdatabase\fR and \fIpurple\fR. The beginning is marked by the section enclosed
in brackets, here is an example:

.RS
[service] 
.br
# lines starting with a '#' are considered a comment.
.br
enable=1
.br
protocol=xmpp
.br
...
.br
[logging]
.RE
.SH FILENAME
The filename itself can be used to configure a few configuration details. This
is intended to enable running all \fBspectrum\fR instances with identical
configuration files that only differ in their filename. You can use this feature
to have only one file and symlink (see ln(1)) it for each instance. 

The syntax of the filename is:
.RS 4
.sp
\fBjid[:protocol[:port]].cfg\fR
.sp
.RE
So a full filename would be \fBxmpp.example.com:xmpp:1000.cfg\fR. The two latter
parts are optional. You can use these settings by using the strings
"$filename:jid", "$filename:protocol" and "$filename:port" (without quotes) in
the configuration file.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
Most options are common to all protocol configurations. Settings can only be
omitted if there is a default value or if it is explicitly marked as optional.

.SS SECTION service
\fBenable\fR=\fIbool\fR
.RS
To disable the spectrum instance, set \fIbool\fR to \fI0\fR (default: enable=1).
.RE

\fBprotocol\fR=\fIprotocol\fR
.RS
Have this spectrum instance use \fIprotocol\fR. Valid values are \fIaim\fR,
\fIfacebook\fR, \fIgg\fR, \fIicq\fR, \fIirc\fR, \fImsn\fR, \fImsn_pecan\fR,
\fImyspace\fR, \fIqq\fR, \fIsimple\fR, \fItwitter\fR, \fIxmpp\fR or \fIyahoo\fR.
.RE

\fBserver\fR=\fIaddress\fR
.RS
Your XMPP-server is available at \fIaddress\fR, the setting can be any IPv4- or
IPv6-address or a fully qualified domain name. Most of the time \fIaddress\fR will
just be \fI127.0.0.1\fR.

\fBNote:\fR IPv6 support is currently untested.
.RE

\fBport\fR=\fIport\fR
.RS
Use \fIport\fR as the component port.
.RE

\fBjid\fR=\fIjid\fR
.RS
Use \fIjid\fR as the component JID.
.RE

\fBuse_proxy\fR=\fIbool\fR
.RS
If \fIbool\fR is 1, the http_proxy env var will be used as the proxy server
(default: 0).
Example: 
.RS
http_proxy="http://user:passwd@your.proxy.server:port/"
.RE
.RE

\fBconfig_interface\fR=\fIpath\fR
.RS
Optional. If set, spectrum opens a local socket at \fIpath\fR where it replies to some 
XMPP-packets. This setting is required by the spectrumctl-action \fIstats\fR
and the munin plugin. Example: /var/run/spectrum/$filename:jid.sock. 
.RE

\fBfiletransfer_bind_address\fR=\fIIP\fR:\fIport\fR
.RS
The filetransfer proxy will bind to \fIIP\fR:\fIport\fR. \fIIP\fR has
to be a public IP. Example: 192.0.2.1:12345.
Only used when filetransfer is enabled (see \fItransport_features\fR and
\fIvip_features\fR settings).
.RE

\fBfiletransfer_public_address\fR=\fIIP\fR:\fIport\fR
.RS
The \fIIP\fR and \fIport\fR that will be sent as a stream host upon a 
filetransfer request. Example: 192.0.2.1:12345.
Only used when filetransfer is enabled (see \fItransport_features\fR and
\fIvip_features\fR settings).
.RE

\fBfiletransfer_cache=\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
.RS
Downloaded files will be saved at \fIdirectory\fR.
Only used when filetransfer is enabled (see \fItransport_features\fR and
\fIvip_features\fR settings).
.RE

\fBfiletransfer_web\fR=\fIURL\fR
.RS
Downloaded files will be available at \fIURL\fR. Note that it is your job to
configure your webserver accordingly.
.RE

\fBadmins\fR=\fIuser@example.com,...\fR
.RS
Optional. Comma-seperated list of transport administrators who have access to
admin adhoc commands.
.RE

\fBname\fR=\fIname\fR
.RS
The transport will show up in Service Discovery as \fIname\fR.
.RE

\fBlanguage\fR=\fIen\fR
.RS
The default language (default: en).
.RE

\fBtransport_features\fR=\fIfeature\fR;\fI...\fR
.RS
List of features available on the transport, seperated by semicolons (';'),
\fIfeature\fR must be a combination of \fIavatars\fR, \fIchatstates\fR and
\fIfiletransfer\fR. If the setting is omitted, all three features will be used.
.RE

\fBvip_mode\fR=\fImode\fR
.RS
If \fImode\fR is \fI1\fR, users will be devided into two groups based
on a database table. See also: \fIonly_for_vip\fR, \fIallowed_servers\fR and
\fIvip_features\fR (default: 0).
.RE

\fBonly_for_vip\fR=\fIbool\fR
.RS
If both \fIvip_mode\fR and \fIonly_for_vip\fR are set to \fI1\fR, the transport
will only be available to VIP users (default: 0).
.RE

\fBallowed_servers\fR=\fIserver\fR;\fI...\fR
.RS
Optional. On a VIP only transport, accounts on any of the given \fIservers\fR
are able to use the transport even if they are not VIP users.
.br
This feature is useful if you want to enable transport only for users from your
server, but also want to give access to VIP users from other servers (for example
from GTalk).
.RE

\fBvip_features\fR=\fIfeature\fR;\fI...\fR
.RS
List of features available only for VIP users. Ignored if
\fIvip_mode\fR=\fI0\fR. List of features is the same as in
\fItransport_feauters\fR.
.RE

\fBpid_file\fR=\fIpath\fR
.RS
Spectrum will put its PID file at \fIpath\fR (default: /var/run/spectrum/$jid). 
.RE

.SS SECTION logging
\fBlog_file\fR=\fIpath\fR
.RS
Create log-file at \fIpath\fR.
.RE

\fBlog_areas\fR=\fIpurple\fR;\fIxml\fR
.RS
A combination of \fIpurple\fR and \fIxml\fR.
.RE

.SS SECTION database
\fBtype\fR=\fItype\fR
.RS
Either use \fIsqlite\fR or \fImysql\fR as database backend.
.RE

\fBhost\fR=\fIhostname\fR
.RS
Connect to \fIhostname\fR when using \fImysql\fR.
.RE

\fBuser\fR=\fIname\fR
.RS
Use \fIname\fR as username when for connecting to \fImysql\fR.
.RE

\fBpassword\fR=\fIpwd\fR
.RS
Use \fIpwd\fR as password when for connecting to \fImysql\fR.
.RE

\fBdatabase\fR=\fIdb\fR
.RS
When using \fImysql\fR, use \fIdb\fR as database name, when using \fIsqlite\fR,
use \fIdb\fR to set the path to the database file.
.RE

\fBprefix\fR=\fIprefix\fR
.RS
Optional. Use \fIprefix\fR as database prefix to connect to a \fImysql\fR
database.
.RE

.SS SECTION purple
\fBuserdir\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
.RS
Store dynamic user data in \fIdirectory\fR.
.RE

.SH XMPP specific options
.SS SECTION service
\fBrequire_tls\fR=\fIbool\fR
.RS
Require TLS to connect to the legacy network. Set this to \fI0\fR to enable
connectivity to the Facebook Jabber server (default: \fI1\fR).
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright \(co 2009\-2010 by Spectrum engineers:
.sp
.\" template start
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
Jan Kaluza <hanzz@soc.pidgin\&.im>
.RE
.\" template end, and once again template start
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
Mathias Ertl <mati@fsinf\&.at>
.RE
.\" template end ;)
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
Paul Aurich <paul@darkrain42\&.org>
.RE
.\" again template end

License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.sp
See http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBspectrum\fP(1), \fBspectrumctl\fP(8)

.SH BUGS
Please submit bugs to our issue tracker at github:
http://github.com/hanzz/spectrum/issues
